THE RIDDLE HOUSE
The villagers of Little Hangleton still called it “the
Riddle House,” even though it had been many years
since the Riddle family had lived there. It stood on a
hill overlooking the village, some of its windows
boarded, tiles missing from its roof, and ivy spreading
unchecked over its face. Once a fine-looking manor,
and easily the largest and grandest building for miles
around, the Riddle House was now damp, derelict,
and unoccupied.
The Little Hangletons all agreed that the old house
was “creepy.” Half a century ago, something strange
and horrible had happened there, something that the
older inhabitants of the village still liked to discuss
when topics for gossip were scarce. The story had
been picked over so many times, and had been
www.ztcprep.com
embroidered in so many places, that nobody was
quite sure what the truth was anymore. Every version
of the tale, however, started in the same place: Fifty
years before, at daybreak on a fine summer’s
morning, when the Riddle House had still been well
P a g e | 2
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – J.K. Rowling
kept and impressive, a maid had entered the drawing
room to find all three Riddles dead.
The maid had run screaming down the hill into the
village and roused as many people as she could.
“Lying there with their eyes wide open! Cold as ice!
Still in their dinner things!”
The police were summoned, and the whole of Little
Hangleton had seethed with shocked curiosity and illdisguised excitement. Nobody wasted their breath
pretending to feel very sad about the Riddles, for they
had been most unpopular. Elderly Mr. and Mrs.
Riddle had been rich, snobbish, and rude, and their
grown-up son, Tom, had been, if anything, worse. All
www.ztcprep.com
the villagers cared about was the identity of their
murderer — for plainly, three apparently healthy
people did not all drop dead of natural causes on the
same night.
The Hanged Man, the village pub, did a roaring trade
that night; the whole village seemed to have turned
out to discuss the murders. They were rewarded for
leaving their firesides when the Riddles’ cook arrived
dramatically in their midst and announced to the
suddenly silent pub that a man called Frank Bryce
had just been arrested.
“Frank!” cried several people. “Never!”
Frank Bryce was the Riddles’ gardener. He lived alone
in a rundown cottage on the grounds of the Riddle
House. Frank had come back from the war with a
very stiff leg and a great dislike of crowds and loud
noises, and had been working for the Riddles ever
since.
P a g e | 3
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – J.K. Rowling
www.ztcprep.com
There was a rush to buy the cook drinks and hear
more details.
“Always thought he was odd,” she told the eagerly
listening villagers, after her fourth sherry.
“Unfriendly, like. I’m sure if I’ve offered him a cuppa
once, I’ve offered it a hundred times. Never wanted to
mix, he didn’t.”
“Ah, now,” said a woman at the bar, “he had a hard
war, Frank. He likes the quiet life. That’s no reason to
—”
“Who else had a key to the back door, then?” barked
the cook. “There’s been a spare key hanging in the
gardener’s cottage far back as I can remember!
Nobody forced the door last night! No broken
windows! All Frank had to do was creep up to the big
house while we was all sleeping. …”
The villagers exchanged dark looks.
“I always thought he had a nasty look about him,
right enough,” grunted a man at the bar.
“War turned him funny, if you ask me,” said the
www.ztcprep.com
landlord.
“Told you I wouldn’t like to get on the wrong side of
Frank, didn’t I, Dot?” said an excited woman in the
corner.
“Horrible temper,” said Dot, nodding fervently. “I
remember, when he was a kid …”
By the following morning, hardly anyone in Little
Hangleton doubted that Frank Bryce had killed the
Riddles.
P a g e | 4
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – J.K. Rowling
But over in the neighboring town of Great Hangleton, in the dark and dingy
police station, Frank was
stubbornly repeating, again and again, that he was
innocent, and that the only person he had seen near
the house on the day of the Riddles’ deaths had been
a teenage boy, a stranger, dark-haired and pale.
Nobody else in the village had seen any such boy, and
the police were quite sure that Frank had invented
him.
Then, just when things were looking very serious for
www.ztcprep.com
Frank, the report on the Riddles’ bodies came back
and changed everything.
The police had never read an odder report. A team of
doctors had examined the bodies and had concluded
that none of the Riddles had been poisoned, stabbed,
shot, strangled, suffocated, or (as far as they could
tell) harmed at all. In fact (the report continued, in a
tone of unmistakable bewilderment), the Riddles all
appeared to be in perfect health — apart from the fact
that they were all dead. The doctors did note (as
though determined to find something wrong with the
bodies) that each of the Riddles had a look of terror
upon his or her face — but as the frustrated police
said, whoever heard of three people being frightened
to death?
As there was no proof that the Riddles had been
murdered at all, the police were forced to let Frank go.
The Riddles were buried in the Little Hangleton
churchyard, and their graves remained objects of
curiosity for a while. To everyone’s surprise, and amid
www.ztcprep.com
a cloud of suspicion, Frank Bryce returned to his
cottage on the grounds of the Riddle House.
“ ’S far as I’m concerned, he killed them, and I don’t
care what the police say,” said Dot in the Hanged
P a g e | 5
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – J.K. Rowling
Man. “And if he had any decency, he’d leave here,
knowing as how we knows he did it.”
But Frank did not leave. He stayed to tend the garden
for the next family who lived in the Riddle House, and
then the next — for neither family stayed long.
Perhaps it was partly because of Frank that the new
owners said there was a nasty feeling about the place,
which, in the absence of inhabitants, started to fall
into disrepair.
The wealthy man who owned the Riddle House these
days neither lived there nor put it to any use; they
said in the village that he kept it for “tax reasons,”
though nobody was very clear what these might be.
The wealthy owner continued to pay Frank to do the
www.ztcprep.com
gardening, however. Frank was nearing his seventyseventh birthday now, very deaf, his bad leg stiffer
than ever, but could be seen pottering around the
flower beds in fine weather, even though the weeds
were starting to creep up on him, try as he might to
suppress them.
Weeds were not the only things Frank had to contend
with either. Boys from the village made a habit of
throwing stones through the windows of the Riddle
House. They rode their bicycles over the lawns Frank
worked so hard to keep smooth. Once or twice, they
broke into the old house for a dare. They knew that
old Frank’s devotion to the house and grounds
amounted almost to an obsession, and it amused
them to see him limping across the garden,
brandishing his stick and yelling croakily at them.
Frank, for his part, believed the boys tormented him
because they, like their parents and grandparents,
thought him a murderer. So when Frank awoke one
night in August and saw something very odd up at
www.ztcprep.com
the old house, he merely assumed that the boys had
gone one step further in their attempts to punish him.
P a g e | 6
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – J.K. Rowling
It was Frank’s bad leg that woke him; it was paining him worse than ever in
his old age. He got up and
limped downstairs into the kitchen with the idea of
refilling his hot-water bottle to ease the stiffness in
his knee. Standing at the sink, filling the kettle, he
looked up at the Riddle House and saw lights
glimmering in its upper windows. Frank knew at once
what was going on. The boys had broken into the
house again, and judging by the flickering quality of
the light, they had started a fire.
Frank had no telephone, and in any case, he had
deeply mistrusted the police ever since they had
taken him in for questioning about the Riddles’
deaths. He put down the kettle at once, hurried back
upstairs as fast as his bad leg would allow, and was
soon back in his kitchen, fully dressed and removing
a rusty old key from its hook by the door. He picked
www.ztcprep.com
up his walking stick, which was propped against the
wall, and set off into the night.
The front door of the Riddle House bore no sign of
being forced, nor did any of the windows. Frank
limped around to the back of the house until he
reached a door almost completely hidden by ivy, took
out the old key, put it into the lock, and opened the
door noiselessly.
He let himself into the cavernous kitchen. Frank had
not entered it for many years; nevertheless, although
it was very dark, he remembered where the door into
the hall was, and he groped his way toward it, his
nostrils full of the smell of decay, ears pricked for any
sound of footsteps or voices from overhead. He
reached the hall, which was a little lighter owing to
the large mullioned windows on either side of the
front door, and started to climb the stairs, blessing
the dust that lay thick upon the stone, because it
muffled the sound of his feet and stick.
P a g e | 7
www.ztcprep.com
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – J.K. Rowling
On the landing, Frank turned right, and saw at once
where the intruders were: At the very end of the
passage a door stood ajar, and a flickering light shone
through the gap, casting a long sliver of gold across
the black floor. Frank edged closer and closer,
grasping his walking stick firmly. Several feet from
the entrance, he was able to see a narrow slice of the
room beyond.
The fire, he now saw, had been lit in the grate. This
surprised him. Then he stopped moving and listened
intently, for a man’s voice spoke within the room; it
sounded timid and fearful.
“There is a little more in the bottle, My Lord, if you
are still hungry.”
“Later,” said a second voice. This too belonged to a
man — but it was strangely high-pitched, and cold as
a sudden blast of icy wind. Something about that
voice made the sparse hairs on the back of Frank’s
neck stand up. “Move me closer to the fire, Wormtail.”
www.ztcprep.com
Frank turned his right ear toward the door, the better
to hear. There came the clink of a bottle being put
down upon some hard surface, and then the dull
scraping noise of a heavy chair being dragged across
the floor. Frank caught a glimpse of a small man, his
back to the door, pushing the chair into place. He was
wearing a long black cloak, and there was a bald
patch at the back of his head. Then he went out of
sight again.
“Where is Nagini?” said the cold voice.
“I — I don’t know, My Lord,” said the first voice
nervously. “She set out to explore the house, I think.
…”
P a g e | 8
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – J.K. Rowling
“You will milk her before we retire, Wormtail,” said the second voice. “I
will need feeding in the night. The
journey has tired me greatly.”
Brow furrowed, Frank inclined his good ear still closer
to the door, listening very hard. There was a pause,
and then the man called Wormtail spoke again.
www.ztcprep.com
“My Lord, may I ask how long we are going to stay
here?”
“A week,” said the cold voice. “Perhaps longer. The
place is moderately comfortable, and the plan cannot
proceed yet. It would be foolish to act before the
Quidditch World Cup is over.”
Frank inserted a gnarled finger into his ear and
rotated it. Owing, no doubt, to a buildup of earwax,
he had heard the word “Quidditch,” which was not a
word at all.
“The — the Quidditch World Cup, My Lord?” said
Wormtail. (Frank dug his finger still more vigorously
into his ear.) “Forgive me, but — I do not understand
— why should we wait until the World Cup is over?”
“Because, fool, at this very moment wizards are
pouring into the country from all over the world, and
every meddler from the Ministry of Magic will be on
duty, on the watch for signs of unusual activity,
checking and double-checking identities. They will be
obsessed with security, lest the Muggles notice
www.ztcprep.com
anything. So we wait.”
Frank stopped trying to clear out his ear. He had
distinctly heard the words “Ministry of Magic,”
“wizards,” and “Muggles.” Plainly, each of these
expressions meant something secret, and Frank could
think of only two sorts of people who would speak in
P a g e | 9
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – J.K. Rowling
code: spies and criminals. Frank tightened his hold on his walking stick
once more, and listened more
closely still.
“Your Lordship is still determined, then?” Wormtail
said quietly.
“Certainly I am determined, Wormtail.” There was a
note of menace in the cold voice now.
A slight pause followed — and then Wormtail spoke,
the words tumbling from him in a rush, as though he
was forcing himself to say this before he lost his
nerve.
“It could be done without Harry Potter, My Lord.”
Another pause, more protracted, and then —
www.ztcprep.com
“Without Harry Potter?” breathed the second voice
softly. “I see …”
“My Lord, I do not say this out of concern for the boy!”
said Wormtail, his voice rising squeakily. “The boy is
nothing to me, nothing at all! It is merely that if we
were to use another witch or wizard — any wizard —
the thing could be done so much more quickly! If you
allowed me to leave you for a short while — you know
that I can disguise myself most effectively — I could
be back here in as little as two days with a suitable
person —”
“I could use another wizard,” said the cold voice
softly, “that is true. …”
“My Lord, it makes sense,” said Wormtail, sounding
thoroughly relieved now. “Laying hands on Harry
Potter would be so difficult, he is so well protected —”
P a g e | 10
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – J.K. Rowling
“And so you volunteer to go and fetch me a
substitute? I wonder … perhaps the task of nursing
www.ztcprep.com
me has become wearisome for you, “Wormtail? Could
this suggestion of abandoning the plan be nothing
more than an attempt to desert me?”
“My Lord! I — I have no wish to leave you, none at all
—”
“Do not lie to me!” hissed the second voice. “I can
always tell, Wormtail! You are regretting that you ever
returned to me. I revolt you. I see you flinch when you
look at me, feel you shudder when you touch me. …”
“No! My devotion to Your Lordship —”
“Your devotion is nothing more than cowardice. You
would not be here if you had anywhere else to go.
How am I to survive without you, when I need feeding
every few hours? Who is to milk Nagini?”
“But you seem so much stronger, My Lord —”
“Liar,” breathed the second voice. “I am no stronger,
and a few days alone would be enough to rob me of
the little health I have regained under your clumsy
care. Silence!”
Wormtail, who had been sputtering incoherently, fell
www.ztcprep.com
silent at once. For a few seconds, Frank could hear
nothing but the fire crackling. Then the second man
spoke once more, in a whisper that was almost a hiss.
“I have my reasons for using the boy, as I have
already explained to you, and I will use no other. I
have waited thirteen years. A few more months will
make no difference. As for the protection surrounding
the boy, I believe my plan will be effective. All that is
needed is a little courage from you, Wormtail —